MILTF
=====
Mtgx & Ioc Load & Transform for netForensic:
- Search recursively for IOC and MTGX (Paterva Maltego/Casefile) file from a configured path
- Extract IP and FQDN information from located files
- Research, listing and comparaison functions

The goal is to compare an input (string or file) with others files on the analyst computer or remote server. If they are match, MILTF do not give much information. It returns minimum information and where the matched files are stored. The analyst then can find its matched files and review it. It has to be considered as a kind of 'index', and not an investigation or decision support script.

Improvment:
MILTF is dropped here. It reply to some needs I'd to face and it is one possible answer. I do not really plan to maintain it or do not promisse to add new functionnalities or work on it or publish following work.
Some possible issues/improvments:
- I'm not really sure about the --exclude (-e) whitelisting efficiency
- Module: gps_* scripts can be combine in one
- MTGX Extraction: is read as text file because lazy, parse it as XML would be cleaner and faster
- Module: filer script's methods can be combined in one

=====
# How is it structurate?
MILTF is composed of one entry script (miltf.py) et four folders:
- module: scripts to extract data, manipulate data, wrap the outputs
- output: where are stored output files (option -o/--output txt)
- ressource: IOC/MTGX/TXT examples files; tool banner; whitelist
- store: MILTF configuration file (store/miltf.cfg) and backup file of the Working Base (WB)  generated by the -co/--cache-out argument, named wb.csv

# How does it work?
When launch, MILTF take in the config file the root folder to search IOC and MTGX files. It then search for this kind of file from this root, extract IPv4 and FQDN from each of finded files, then create the Working base in memory.
After that, it take care of the arguments.

# What it does?
Their are four main search type:
- find all files depending of one search axe: IOC, MTGX, IPv4 or Domain
- search an IP or a (part of) FQDN in the WB
- matching a given MTGX or IOC file with the WB
- compare to file to each other

## File matching type
Their are two way MILTF match files to the Working Base:
- check: give for each element (IPv4 or FQDN) of the input file where it can be found in the IOC and MTGX files loaded in the WB
- comparaison: give the number of hit elements beetween the input file and matched Working Base entries

## File output type
Their are three output type:
- (default) var: return result to stdout (from extern script)
- txt: create a txt result file in a CSV format
- term: print the result with a more human readable formatting

## Special arguments
Their are four special options:
- api: search elements in the ThreatRecon knowledge base and if found return the Attribution information (API key to set up in store/miltf.cfg; Free API Threashold: 4req / min)
- exclude: clean the output from domain and IP listed in the configured whitelist file
- cache-in: after building up the Working Base, MILTF save an image of it in a csv file (store/wb.csv)
- cache-out: if a previous cache-in has been done, load the Working base from the cache-in image

=====
# Help
python3 miltf.py -h
usage: miltf.py [-h] [-a ALL_FLAG] [-d SEARCH_DOM] [-i SEARCH_IP4]
                [--check-ioc CHECK_IOC] [--check-mtgx CHECK_MTGX]
                [--check-txt CHECK_TXT] [--comp-ioc COMP_IOC]
                [--comp-mtgx COMP_MTGX] [--comp-txt COMP_TXT]
                [--comp-twix COMP_TWIX] [-o OUTPUT_TYPE] [--api] [-e] [-ci]
                [-co]

Mtgx&Ioc Load&Transform for netForensic (MILTF) aim to extract network
information from mtgx (Paterva Maltego/Casefile) and IOC files.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a ALL_FLAG, --all-flag ALL_FLAG
                        Return all the element of the working base regarding
                        one of the following tag: IP4, DOM, IOC, MTGX (not
                        case sensitive, default=all)
  -d SEARCH_DOM, --search-dom SEARCH_DOM
                        Search a domain in the working base and return the
                        matched string, the type of source file (IOC/MTGX) and
                        the source file PATH
  -i SEARCH_IP4, --search-ip4 SEARCH_IP4
                        Search an IPv4 adress in the working base and return
                        the matched string, the type of source file (IOC/MTGX)
                        and the source file PATH
  --check-ioc CHECK_IOC
                        Extract IP and domain of a given IOC file, search the
                        elemnts in the working base and return the matched
                        string, the type of source file (IOC/MTGX) and the
                        source file PATH
  --check-mtgx CHECK_MTGX
                        Extract IP and domain of a given Mtgx file, search the
                        elemnts in the working base and return the matched
                        string, the type of source file (IOC/MTGX) and the
                        source file PATH
  --check-txt CHECK_TXT
                        Extract the string at each line of the given TXT file,
                        search the elemnts in the working base and return the
                        matched string, the type of source file (IOC/MTGX) and
                        the source file PATH
  --comp-ioc COMP_IOC   Extract IP and Domain of a given IOC File, search the
                        element in the working base and return the number of
                        element that matched at least one, with a numeric
                        indicator.
  --comp-mtgx COMP_MTGX
                        Extract IP and Domain of a given Mtgx File, search the
                        element in the working base and return the number of
                        element that matched at least one, with a numeric
                        indicator.
  --comp-txt COMP_TXT   Extract the string at each line of the given TXT file,
                        search the element in the working base and return the
                        number of element that matched at least one, with a
                        numeric indicator.
  --comp-twix COMP_TWIX
                        Extract IP and domains of two given files (IOC or
                        MTGX) and return elements that matched at least one.
                        Filenames has to be separate with a '=='
  -o OUTPUT_TYPE, --output-type OUTPUT_TYPE
                        Defining output method: create a txt file (txt),
                        return a variable (var) or print in the terminal
                        (term). Default = var. Don't hesitate to redirect the
                        'term' output into a file
  --api                 Activate the Threat Recon API checking
  -e, --exclude         Load domains and IPs from the given txt file (one per
                        line) and exclude this elements from MILTF working
                        base. BUG: some domains are exclude for an unknow
                        reason, without beeing listed in the whitelist. Still
                        investigated this issue.
  -ci, --cache-in       Save the actual working base into a csv file
  -co, --cache_out      Load data from the -ci argument's csv output to feed
                        the working base, instead of crawling the filesystem.


=====
# Use Case Example

